Welcome to the Schedule of Learning Game Development With Emily.Raelyn*
* The lawyers want me to make a disclaimer that I am NOT a professional or claiming to be one and I am not making money by you using this schedule. I am merely an enthusiast for game development and I am finally pursuing a dream that I had as a youngling of becoming a self-taught game developer on a BUDGET! And if you are anything like me, you are as well. Also this is CC BY NC SA- Meaning you may copy/publish/modify and adapt these documents but you aren't allowed to resell for commercial use or change the copyright license. THANK YOU! 
** NOTE: This schedule is for those who want a moderate 2 week per month at LEAST 6-10 hours per week. If you want to go extreme like me, do it week by week instead of month by month. However, for those who need very light hobbyist schedule since they have other obligations feel free to adjust this as needed for YOUR needs. This is merely a template. 
*** Also, this is not a compeleted schedule. I am still learning and only have planned 6 weeks ahead. So look out for updates as we go. 
**** Lastly, most of these instructions are using youtube, free websites/articles, or personal knowledge I have from previous experiences. I am trying to create a curriculum that is budget friendly, but if you do not agree with it, then unfortunately you are not my audience. Feel free to go to college/online courses and pay ridiculous amounts of money to learn the same thing, in the end, the goal is the same. LEARN GAME DEVELOPMENT. So, lets do this!

This is a free resource that you can use that is helping me learn game development! I'd love to hear about your progress or your questions in my communities, feel free to reach out below:

Discord: https://discord.gg/NMGMp4EFum
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=61566537202256
Instagram: @Emily.Raelyn

Now, let's get our GAME DEV on!

Month 1- Foundations
Week 1 - Intro to Game Design

Day 1 - Research Game Design Principles, read and annotate at LEAST 3 articles or 3 videos
Day 2 - Explore different game genres (Get out of your comfort zone! Play different games you have never thought of trying before or if you can't play, read about them or watch others play them)
Day 3 - Watch intro to Game Development videos
Day 4 - Read articles on game mechanics and storytelling
Day 5 - Join Online Communities
Day 6 - Reflect and take notes on what interests you
Day 7 - Rest and plan next week. 

Week 2- Learn Programming Basics

Day 1 - Choose a language (C# or C++ or JS for web games) and set up an IDE (Visual Studio Code, Atom, etc)
Day 2 - Learn basic syntax (youtube videos, I LOVE w3schools but depends on the person, I personally did 2 college courses and I felt like I learned more from Microsoft free training to be honest.)
Day 3 - Study control structures
Day 4 - Practice functions / Methods
Day 5 - Work on a tiny project (simple calculator and MAKE IT INTO YOUR OWN, don't just clone it)
Day 6 - Practice challenges on HackerRank or LEETCode. I personally prefer Discords 'The Developer Safe Place - Code Challenges' But its up to you.
Day 7 - Rest and plan next week. 

Month 2- Game Engines and tools
Week 3- Choose a game engine

Day 1 - Research Unity, Unreal Engine, and GoDot.
Day 2 - Install and set up chosen game engine
Day 3 - Follow a VERY beginner BASIC tutorial
Day 4 - Learn about the engine's interface
Day 5 - Experiment and learn about built in assets
Day 6 - Work on a small project within engine
Day 7 - Rest and plan next week.

Week 4- Game Dev Tools

Day 1 - Learn about GIT, a version control tool or if you chose another one learn about it but I highly recommend GIT and GITHub
Day 2 - Set up a Github account and connect it with your git bash and set up a basic repository
Day 3 - Explore basic art tools
Day 4 - Watch tutorials on asset creation
Day 5 - Create simple 2D and 3D assets
Day 6 - Integrate assets in your previously created small project
Day 7 - Rest and plan next week. 

Month 3- Building Projects
Week 5- Create your 1st game*

Day 1 - Plan a simple game. 
Day 2 - Start coding basic mechanics
Day 3 - Implement game rules and scoring
Day 4 - Add art assets and sound effects
Day 5 - Test and debug your game
Day 6 - Polish your game and prep for sharing
Day 7 - Rest and Plan next week

* This is where it becomes more open or you can begin adjusting it to your needs. Many people want to build the game of their dreams. This week is just a taste of how you will continue on your journey. This is a template for like a MVP (minimum viable product- basic features to get the idea of the game through) and you will repeat this week for many weeks or months it takes to complete. OR you can continue to the following week which will continue on to the roadmap of Game Development for possible employment or collaboration with a publisher/team. SO it is completely up to you where you head from here on out. My deam is to be an indie developer so on this week my documentation will take different turn but I will continue to update this guide so you can benefit from it. Great job for getting to this! Now get YOUR GAME DEV ON!


