#Learn GD
Welcome to Week_1 With Emily.Raelyn*
* The lawyers want me to make a disclaimer that I am NOT a professional or claiming to be one and I am not making money by you using this schedule. I am merely an enthusiast for game development and I am finally pursuing a dream that I had as a youngling of becoming a self-taught game developer on a BUDGET! And if you are anything like me, you are as well. Also this is CC BY NC SA- Meaning you may copy/publish/modify and adapt these documents but you aren't allowed to resell for commercial use or change the copyright license. THANK YOU!
** NOTE: This schedule is for those who want a moderate 2 week per month at LEAST 6-10 hours per week. If you want to go extreme like me, do it week by week instead of month by month. However, for those who need very light hobbyist schedule since they have other obligations feel free to adjust this as needed for YOUR needs. This is merely a template. 

This is a free resource that you can use that is helping me learn game development! I'd love to hear about your progress or your questions in my communities, feel free to reach out below:

Discord: https://discord.gg/NMGMp4EFum
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=61566537202256
Instagram: @Emily.Raelyn

Now, let's get our GAME DEV on!

Lesson Plan
Week 1

Summary
Subject(s): Game Design, storytelling, level design, and user engagement
Topic or Unit of Study: Intro to Game Dev
Level: Beginner
Objective: Familiarize yourself with Game Design Principals. 
Reading Rainbow Tip: I highly recommend that you listen to Game Dev interviews to motivate yourself. I found this very useful to get STARTED and CONTINUE to follow through. 
Time Allotment: 1 week at least 6-10 hours total

Day I- Game Design Principles    
Game Mechanics*
Source: JuegoStudio.com
Notes: 
Game Mechanics are rules, clements,  and processes that make up a game. Basically they define how the game wires and determines success and failure in video game. Game mechanics include  player objectives, rewards, Character interaction, level design, resource management, Systems, etc.
Action mechanics - Player can control  Characters objects to interact with the environment.
Examples: Jumping dodging obstacles, shooting  
Strategy mechanics- players must use their  problem solving skills to progress levels.  Examples: resource management, puzzle-solving,  and planning combat strategies  
Exploration Mechanics- Players can discover new  areas and uncovering Secrets that are hidden in plain sight  
Examples: Physical/virtual worlds, hidden Objects, new areas, etc. 
Resource management mechanics-  when players manage resources to succeed. 
Examples: Health, money, ammunition.

Benefits of Game Design:
1. Flow
2. Motivation
3. User Experience
4. Player Progression
5. Player Agency
6. Open Ended Exploration
7. Emergent Gameplay

* The goal here is to give an example of how in depth you should study these principles. You must study from 2-3 other sources on your OWN to help you be successful and this is just the bare minimum of what we should be doing. And I say WE because I am in this with you, but WE can do this if WE put our mind to it. Now, get to it!

Day II- Game Genres

Notes:
Play various types of games 15-30 mins each. From 2D to 3D games, from fighting/action- stealth or battle royale. If you can't play them, read about them or watch others play them. Familiarize yourself with at least 15 genres. For example play 2 different types of games and watch videos about the others. 

Day III- Intro to Game Dev Videos

Notes:
Watch various types of videos, Thomas Brush, CS50 Harvard, Intro to Game Dev Sebastian Lague, etc. Get crazy with youtube or online articles. At least 3 videos or articles and write down what interested you most about each one. 

Day IV- Game Mechanics and Story telling

Source: gamedeveloper.com Extreme storytelling
Notes:
Narrative mechanic: A mechanic or set of in which directly influence the story thru player actions. Examples: A good/evil slider, choices in a cut scene, reactive narrator durig important scenes. A good mechanic is when a game keeps track of how many times killed, how well player has been eating, or getting sleep, and offer a detailed report at the end. WHICH IS SUPER TRUE. Most games offer the mechanics to do these things but have no end of game purpose. So that would be SUPER cool to do. 

Source: Game Mechanics Teun Dubbelman
Narrative- A mental image or cognitive construct build by the interpreter as a response to a text. There are core mechanics, picking up amo, health kits, etc. There are specialized mechanics like incapacitated mechanic where the health is low and cannot move until saved or dies. Research more about design patterns if that is an interest. 
 
 Day V- Join online forums
 Notes:
 Feel free to join my communities as they are growing but join many others as well. At least 5 others and try to participate at least 1 time a week. This will help you network and keep you motivated as well. 
 Discord: https://discord.gg/NMGMp4EFum
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=61566537202256
Instagram: @Emily.Raelyn

Day VI- Reflect on what interests you and motivates you. Use this to also find a reason to hold you accountable. For me it's youtube, Or else I'd go to fast to actually grasp anything or I'd lose interest and give up like many times before. So FIND THAT FOR YOU! And put it everywhere, on your wall, your wallpaper on your phone, your work desk, ANYTHING to help you stay motivated. 

Day VII- Rest and plan next week. 